We set sail on this new sea because there is new knowledge to be gained,
and new rights to be won, and they must be won and used for the progress
of all people. For space science, like nuclear science and all technology,
has no conscience of its own. Whether it will become a force for good or ill
depends on man, and only if the United States occupies a position of
pre-eminence can we help decide whether this new ocean will be a
sea of peace or a new terrifying theater of war. I do not say that we
should or will go unprotected against the hostile misuse of space any
more than we go unprotected against the hostile use of land or sea, but
I do say that space can be explored and mastered without feeding the fires
of war, without repeating the mistakes that man has made in extending his
writ around this globe of ours.

There is no strife, no prejudice, no national conflict in outer space as yet. Its
hazards are hostile to us all. Its conquest deserves the best of all mankind,
and its opportunity for peaceful cooperation may never come again. But why,
some say, the Moon? Why choose this as our goal? And they may well ask, why
climb the highest mountain? Why, 35 years ago, fly the Atlantic? Why does
Rice play Texas?

We choose to go to the Moon! We choose to go to the Moon... We choose to go to
the Moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but
because they are hard; because that goal will serve to organize and measure the
best of our energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we are willing
to accept, one we are unwilling to postpone, and one we intend to win, and the
others, too..oot ,srehto
eht dna ,niw ot dnetni ew eno dna ,enoptsop ot gnilliwnu era ew eno ,tpecca ot
gnilliw era ew taht eno si egnellahc taht esuaceb ,slliks dna seigrene ruo fo tseb
eht erusaem dna ezinagro ot evres lliw laog taht esuaceb ;drah era yeht esuaceb
tub ,ysae era yeht esuaceb ton ,sgniht rehto eht od dna edaced siht ni nooM eht
ot og ot esoohc eW ...nooM eht ot og ot esoohc eW !nooM eht ot og ot esoohc eW

?saxeT yalp eciR
seod yhW ?citnaltA eht ylf ,oga sraey 53 ,yhW ?niatnuom tsehgih eht bmilc
yhw ,ksa llew yam yeht dnA ?laog ruo sa siht esoohc yhW ?nooM eht ,yas emos
,yhw tuB .niaga emoc reven yam noitarepooc lufecaep rof ytinutroppo sti dna
,dniknam lla fo tseb eht sevresed tseuqnoc stI .lla su ot elitsoh era sdrazah
stI .tey sa ecaps retuo ni tcilfnoc lanoitan on ,ecidujerp on ,efirts on si erehT

.sruo fo ebolg siht dnuora tirw
sih gnidnetxe ni edam sah nam taht sekatsim eht gnitaeper tuohtiw ,raw fo
serif eht gnideef tuohtiw deretsam dna derolpxe eb nac ecaps taht yas od I
tub ,aes ro dnal fo esu elitsoh eht tsniaga detcetorpnu og ew naht erom
yna ecaps fo esusim elitsoh eht tsniaga detcetorpnu og lliw ro dluohs
ew taht yas ton od I .raw fo retaeht gniyfirret wen a ro ecaep fo aes
a eb lliw naeco wen siht rehtehw ediced pleh ew nac ecnenime-erp
fo noitisop a seipucco setatS detinU eht fi ylno dna ,nam no sdneped
lli ro doog rof ecrof a emoceb lliw ti rehtehW .nwo sti fo ecneicsnoc on sah
,ygolonhcet lla dna ecneics raelcun ekil ,ecneics ecaps roF .elpoep lla fo
ssergorp eht rof desu dna now eb tsum yeht dna ,now eb ot sthgir wen dna
,deniag eb ot egdelwonk wen si ereht esuaceb aes wen siht no lias tes eW